---
title: "BiScope: AI-generated Text Detection by Checking Memorization of Preceding Tokens"
authors: ["Hanxi Guo", "Siyuan Cheng", "Xiaolong Jin", "ZHUO ZHANG", "Kaiyuan Zhang", "Guanhong Tao", "Guangyu Shen", "Xiangyu Zhang"]
venue: "NeurIPS"
year: 2024
venue_class: "whitelist"
arxiv_id: ""
openreview_id: "Hew2JSDycr"
anthology_id: ""
pdf_url: "https://openreview.net/pdf/da09a7bd3db13b8c90cd5405e9a33d344c858565.pdf"
published: "2024"
categories: []
keywords: ["Large Language Models", "AI-text Detection", "Paraphrase", "Trustworthy AI"]
venue_source: "openreview"
hunter_fetched: "2026-04-15T05:18:56+09:00"
---

# BiScope: AI-generated Text Detection by Checking Memorization of Preceding Tokens

## Abstract
Detecting text generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) is a pressing need in
 order to identify and prevent misuse of these powerful models in a wide range of
 applications, which have highly undesirable consequences such as misinformation
 and academic dishonesty. Given a piece of subject text, many existing detection
 methods work by measuring the difficulty of LLM predicting the next token in
 the text from their prefix. In this paper, we make a critical observation that
 how well the current token’s output logits memorizes the closely preceding input
 tokens also provides strong evidence. Therefore, we propose a novel bi-directional
 calculation method that measures the cross-entropy losses between an output
 logits and the ground-truth token (forward) and between the output logits and
 the immediately preceding input token (backward). A classifier is trained to
 make the final prediction based on the statistics of these losses. We evaluate our
 system, named BISCOPE, on texts generated by five latest commercial LLMs
 across five heterogeneous datasets, including both natural language and code.
 BISCOPE demonstrates superior detection accuracy and robustness compared to six
 existing baseline methods, exceeding the state-of-the-art non-commercial methods’
 detection accuracy by over 0.30 F1 score, achieving over 0.95 detection F1 score
 on average. It also outperforms the best commercial tool GPTZero that is based on
 a commercial LLM trained with an enormous volume of data. Code is available at https://github.com/MarkGHX/BiScope.

## Metadata
- venue: NeurIPS
- year: 2024
- authors: Hanxi Guo, Siyuan Cheng, Xiaolong Jin, ZHUO ZHANG, Kaiyuan Zhang, Guanhong Tao, Guangyu Shen, Xiangyu Zhang
- arxiv_id: 
- openreview_id: Hew2JSDycr
- anthology_id: 
- pdf_url: https://openreview.net/pdf/da09a7bd3db13b8c90cd5405e9a33d344c858565.pdf
- published: 2024
- keywords: Large Language Models, AI-text Detection, Paraphrase, Trustworthy AI
